In this video we'll learn about how C++ uses streams and files for IO writing and IO library for any
programming language is an extremely difficult task.
There can be all sorts of devices providing data to your program and your program can send data to many
types of devices as well.
These devices may be physical devices such as hard disks the console and the keyboard.
Or they can be virtual devices such as some connection to a web server C++ provides a stream abstraction
to work with IO devices a stream is an interface that's independent of the actual device.
So from the programmers perspective we can code to the stream interface and not worry too much about
what device is connected to the stream stream is exactly as you would expect.
It's a sequence of bytes.
C++ provides different types of streams depending on whether we want input or output.
But we can also use a stream that does both.
Let's see what this looks like visually.
In this slide you can see that the C++ program is on the right side the upper stream is an input stream
that provides input to the program from some input device this device can be the keyboard a file a connection
to a web service and more the lower stream is an output stream that takes output from the program and
sends it to the output device.
Again the output device can be a file.
The console a connection to a web service and more.
So let's see some of the C++ header files that we typically include to allow us to work with IO streams.
In this slide we can see three of the most commonly included header files that allow us to work with
stream audio.
There are others but these three are the most commonly used first.
We've already seen and used IO stream IO stream provides the definitions required for formatted input
and output to and from streams.
The stream include file provides definitions for formatted IO to and from file streams and the IO manip
header file provides definitions for manipulators that allow us to format IO streams in specific ways
we'll use the IO manip functionality first in this section when we include these header files will have
access to many C++ classes that we can use for file IO.
So let's see a few of them be Iowas class provides basic support for formatted and formatted IO.
It serves as a base class for most other classes in the IO stream hierarchy the stream class provides
high level input operations from files.
So if you want to read from a file you can declare your object to be an extreme object the O.F. stream
class provides high level output operations from files.
And again if you want to create a new file or write to a file you can declare it as an object of O.F.
stream the stream class provides high level IO on file based streams that stream is derived from stream
and O.F. stream using multiple inheritance.
If we need to do both input and output to a file at the same time we can declare an F stream object
to do it.
Finally we have the string stream class.
This is a very useful class that provides high level IO on memory based strings just like we can use
insertion and extraction with CNN C out.
We can use them with strings to get input and provide output into a string in memory.
That's pretty powerful stuff and we'll see some examples later on.
Finally let's visit our old friends see in and see out and see exactly what they are.
The fact that we've used them all along without worrying about how to create them how to connect them
and so forth is a testament to the design of the C++ IO library and the device independence model C
in C out c air and sea log our global objects.
They're initialized before Maine begins to execute.
And all you need to do is include IO stream to use them.
CN is the standard input stream and is by default connected to the keyboard.
It's an instance of the I stream class C out is the standard output stream and by default it's connected
to the console.
It's an instance of the stream class.
This class should sound familiar since we used it when we overloaded the insertion operator in the overloading
operator section of course C in and C out are generally buffered streams.
This means that input from CNH won't be automatic until the user presses enter and output to see out
occurs only when the stream buffer fills up or we provide a stood and line or we flushed a stream.
Now Sea Air and Sea log or the standard error stream and the standard log stream respectively by default
they're both connected to the console.
They're both unbuffered which means that we get input or output from them as we need it.
Best practice is to use Sierre for error messages and see log for log messages.
Those of you who are familiar with the unix terminal shell or the Windows command prompt know that we
can redirect these streams easily.
So input comes from a file or up goes to a file.
I will be covering this in this course but if you're interested do an internet search for redirecting
hiyo and you'll see how easy and powerful it can be.
OK so that concludes this video in the next video we'll see how we can use the IO manipulators to help
us format our IO.